Introduction:
In recent years, both electron microscopy (EM) and small-angle x-ray scattering (SAXS) measu-
rements have become more readily available. Indeed, both SASDB and EMDB have seen a
steady rise in their yearly number of deposits throughout the past decade. Although the two
techniques both probe the structure of the sample, we do not know of any earlier attempts at
unifying this complementary information. Thus that is exactly what we set out to do.

The goal of this project, then, is to develop a tool that can efficiently compare EM maps with
SAXS scattering data. Since efficiency is a primary concern of ours, we restrict ourselves to using only the raw EM map data to avoid relying on a computationally expensive atomic structure model generation step. The basic idea is to vary a density treshold value, which will be used to generate a dummy atomic model from the EM map. This dummy model can then be directly compared with the scattering data through the Debye equation. 

A primary step in this approach is the comparison of the experimental scattering data with the theoretical scattering curve given by the Debye equation. We have developed our own efficient fitting routine to do this, which we intend to build a rigid-body optimizer with in the future. 

Conclusion:
The method is surprisingly useful. Although the goodness of fit may not be perfect, qualitatively the calculated scattering curve matched the measurement really well in all practical examples. It is especially powerful due to its efficiency and ease of use: since it uses only the raw EM map data, it neatly bypasses the typically costly atomic structure modelling step.

The tool will be especially useful to EM researchers. When a sample is prepared for a cryo-EM or TEM measurement, there are many opportunities for accidentally damaging or modifying the sample, resulting in an altered EM map. If a SAXS measurement was made beforehand, this tool could be used to check that the EM map corresponds to the unmodified(?) sample. 

Other stuff:
Aren't --> are not
cutoff --> threshold?
